# sql-challenge
---------------

Background
----------
It’s been two weeks since you were hired as a new data engineer at Pewlett Hackard (a fictional company). Your first major task is to do a research 
project about people whom the company employed during the 1980s and 1990s. All that remains of the employee database from that period are six CSV files.
For this project, you’ll design the tables to hold the data from the CSV files, import the CSV files into a SQL database, 
and then answer questions about the data. That is, you’ll perform data modeling, data engineering, and data analysis, respectively.


Data Modeling
--------------
Inspected the CSV files, and then sketched an Entity Relationship Diagram of the tables. 
Created ERD sketch using QuickDBD Links to an external site:https://app.quickdatabasediagrams.com/

Data Engineering
-----------------
Used the provided information in the employees directory to create a table schema for each of the six CSV files subject
to the data types, primary keys, foreign keys, and other constraints.
created employee DB:Employee_DB/postgres@PostgreSQL14. 

The following SQL tables were created with each CSV file imported into its corresponding table.
1. departments
2. dept_emp
3. dept_manager
4. employees
5. salaries
6. titles


Data Analysis
--------------
Perfromed the following data analysis to answer the following questions:

List the employee number, last name, first name, sex, and salary of each employee.

List the first name, last name, and hire date for the employees who were hired in 1986.

List the manager of each department along with their department number, department name, employee number, last name, and first name.

List the department number for each employee along with that employee’s employee number, last name, first name, and department name.

List first name, last name, and sex of each employee whose first name is Hercules and whose last name begins with the letter B.

List each employee in the Sales department, including their employee number, last name, and first name.

List each employee in the Sales and Development departments, including their employee number, last name, first name, and department name

List the frequency counts, in descending order, of all the employee last names (that is, how many employees share each last name).

Bonus (Optional)
----------------

Import the SQL database into Pandas.  
#Creating engine
import pandas as pd
import sqlalchemy
import pprint
import psycopg2
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
from config import password

engine = create_engine(f'postgresql+psycopg2://postgres:{password}@localhost:5432/Employee_Db')
conn = engine.connect()
conn

Performed some of the SQl queries and pd.read_sq in DataFrame which include:
1. employee_number = pd.read_sql("SELECT employees.emp_no,employees.last_name,employees.first_name, employees.sex,
   salaries.salary FROM employees LEFT JOIN salaries on employees.emp_no= salaries.emp_no ORDER BY emp_no", conn)

2. list_manager = pd.read_sql("SELECT dept_manager.dept_no, departments.dept_name, dept_manager.emp_no, 
   employees.last_name, employees.first_name FROM  dept_manager JOIN departments on 
   dept_manager.dept_no = departments.dept_no JOIN employees on dept_manager.emp_no = employees.emp_no", conn)
3. frequency_counts = pd.read_sql("SELECT last_name, COUNT(*) AS freq_count FROM employees GROUP BY last_name 
   ORDER BY freq_count DESC", conn)
   

Submission
------------------------
Create an image file of your ERD.

Create a .sql file of your table schemata.

Create a .sql file of your queries.

(Optional) Create a Jupyter Notebook of the bonus analysis.

Create and upload a repository with the above files to GitHub and post a link on BootCamp Spot.
References
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLC Links to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator.

Copyright
Trilogy Education Services © 2019. All Rights Reserved.




